# 2.0 Folder Structure

The typical structure for the XOOPS Module looks like this:

Skeleton file structure

The following is a summary of the Basic Module Structure document by Onokazu. Note that this structure was outlined for XOOPS 1 RC3 modules. Not all of these files are needed [TO DO: WHICH ONES ARE ACTUALLY REQUIRED ?]

Create the following directory structure and files as a skeleton code that will form the basis of your new module.

|||
|--|--|
|/admin|admin_header.php<br>index.php<br>menu.php
|/blocks||
|/language||
| 
|------/english| admin.php<br> blocks.php<br>main.php<br>modinfo.php|
|/sql||
|/templates||
|----/admin<br>----/blocks||
|/testdata||
|/tests||
|xoops_version.php<br>header.php<br>index.php||
|||

## Function of skeleton directories and files
The actual *functions* of these directories and files are described below. This is based partly on the Basic Module Structure by Onokazu and Coolpop’s Module Kickstart Guide. It is also based on an analysis of a simple module – Polls – and the code and comments therein. 
your_module
The top level directory for your module must sit under the path: XOOPS_root/modules/your_module or you will not be able to install it. There are three files found in the suggested skeleton structure:

**xoops_version.php**
This is the most important file in the module as it contains various module configuration variables. This file indicates:
•	Basic information about the module (name, author, credits etc)
•	The location of the sql database file, and the names of the database tables generated by the module
•	Whether the module has an administration page, and its location.
•	List of templates used in the module, with optional descriptions
•	List of blocks used in the module, with optional description
•	Whether the module should be included in the main menu
•	Whether the module uses comments, and on what pages


#### _General variables & statements_

|Statement/variable|Description|
|--|--|
| ```$modversion['name'] = _MI_POLLS_NAME;```<br>```$modversion['image'] = "images/xoopspoll_slogo.png";```<br> | A variable holding the name of the module (the name is specified in the file: language/english/modinfo.php file The path to the module image (for the administration menu)|
|$modversion['version'] = 1.00;||
|||

#### _SQL-related variables and statements_

|Statement/variable|Description|
|--|--|
|||


#### _Administrative things_

|Statement/variable|Description|
|--|--|
|||




#### _Blocks_
These statements provide information about the module’s blocks:


|Statement/variable|Description|
|--|--|
|||




#### _Menu_

|Statement/variable|Description|
|--|--|
|```$modversion['hasMain'] = 1;```|Specifies if the module should be included in the main menu (‘1’) or not (‘0’).|




#### _Comments_

|Statement/variable|Description|
|--|--|
|```$modversion['hasComments'] = 1;```<br>```$modversion['comments']['pageName'] = 'pollresults.php';```<br>```$modversion['comments']['itemName'] = 'poll_id';```|Specifies if the module uses comments (‘1’) or not (‘0’). If you set this at 0 comment options will not be available in your module. <br><br>???? Not sure what this does. Look at the ‘including comments in your module’ guide in the Wiki etc. ???? <br><br>???? Not sure what this does. Look at the ‘including comments in your module’ guide in the Wiki etc. ????
|

**header.php (not required)**



Inclusion of required core files is done here. This file is not present in the Polls module. 
TO DO: LOOK AT ANOTHER MODULE AND SEE WHAT IT DOES THERE

**index.php**
Module main contents come here.

### /admin
All the admin related files for the module belong to this directory. Access to this directory must be restricted.

**admin_header.php**
Permission checks, inclusion of mainfile.php and language files are done here. 

**index.php**
Module administration contents come here. 

**menu.php**
This file includes variables used for creating popup admin menu for the module.
### /blocks
This directory contains files that define block display/edit functions

**blocks.php**

### /cache
Files that are created/updated dynamically belong to this directory. To create new files within the directory, the permission of this directory should be set writeable by the server (chmod 666 or 777 for UNIX/LINUX servers).

The permission of files in this directory should be set writeable by the server (chmod 666 or 777 for UNIX/LINUX servers).
### /images
This directory simply houses all of the images used in your module. Put them here. Easy !
### /language
The language directory contains most of the text used in the interface of your module (ideally all of it). The official XOOPS modules are mainly distributed in English (only) but translations are available in many languages and you are free to install as many as you like – they coexist peacefully. Each language sits in its own subdirectory, ie:

**/language/english
/language/spanish
/language/chinese
etc**

To translate a module simply copy (say) the english subdirectory, rename it and then translate the english text strings inside. Its that easy. If you want to change the text in a module, all you need do is to look in the appropriate language file. 
/language/english
The text used in a module is not hard-coded into its interface, rather it is held within constants as you will see below. This keeps the module’s business logic separated from the text used in its display. That is why it is so easy to translate a XOOPS modules into many languages.

**admin.php**
This file defines the value of language constants used in the administrative side of the module: If there are not many used in the administration pages, this file may be merged with english/main.php.

### /sql
SQL dump files used for module installation belong to this directory.

**mysql.sql 
mysql dump file
postgresql.sql 
postgreSQL dump file**

### /templates
HTML files for Xoops 2 RC3 and later module templates to be called by xoops_version.php & modversion array. All templates used in the module should be found in this directory.

**module_start_page.tpl**

### /templates/blocks
HTML files for Xoops 2 RC3 and later module blocks templates to be called by xoops_version.php & modversion array for 'blocks' items. These files use smarty variables to display module information. 

All templates used in module blocks should be found here. These use smarty block variables variables to display module blocks information.


























